Add Index Template APIs (#7635)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _api-reference/index-apis/component-template.md

---
layout: default

> title: Create Component Template

Author: ```suggestion
title: Create or Update Component Template
```

> title: Create or Update Component Template

Author: ```suggestion
title: Create or update component template
```

> title: Create or update component template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Create component template
```

Author: I think we need update in here so that its clear to people that the same endpoint performs both functions.

parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 29
---

> # Create Component Template

Author: ```suggestion
# Create or Update Component Template
```

> # Create or Update Component Template

Author: ```suggestion
# Create or update a component template
```

> # Create or update a component template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create component template
```

> The Create Component Template API creates and updates a component template. Component templates are pieces of index templates which mappings, index settings, and aliases.

Author: ```suggestion
The Create/update component template API creates and updates a component template. Component templates are pieces of index templates which mappings, index settings, and aliases.
```

> The Create/update component template API creates and updates a component template. Component templates are pieces of index templates which mappings, index settings, and aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use the Create Component Template API to create and/or update a component template. A component template is a reusable building block that defines settings, mappings, and aliases that can be shared across multiple index templates. 
```

An index template can be constructed from multiple component templates. To incorporate a component template into an index template, you need to list it in the `composed_of` section of the index template. Component templates are only applied to newly created data streams and indexes that match the criteria specified in the index template.

If any settings or mappings are directly defined in the index template or the index creation request, those settings will take precedence over the settings or mappings specified in a component template.

> Component templates are utilized solely during the process of index creation. For data streams, this includes the creation of the data stream itself and the creation of the backing indexes that support the stream. Modifications made to component templates will not affect existing indices, including the backing indices of a data stream.

Author: ```suggestion
Component templates are utilized solely during the process of index creation. For data streams, this includes the creation of the data stream itself and the creation of the backing indexes that support the stream. Modifications made to component templates will not affect existing indexes, including the backing indexes of a data stream.
```

> ## Path and HTTP Methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Path and HTTP methods
```

```
PUT _component_template/<component-template-name>

> GET _component_template/<component-template-name>

Reviewer 2: should we mention this separately. It's not very clear that the below mentioned query parameters just belong to PUT request. Ideally GET request doesn't contain the body, but yeah if we can make this more clear

Author: To clarify at @sarthakaggarwal97, the PUT requests should contain both Query Parameters and a request body but the GET Request should not?

Author: Modified with the details given by @sarthakaggarwal97

```

## Path parameters

> Parameter | Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Data type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :---
`component-template-name` | String | The name of the component template.

## Query parameters

The following optional query parameters are supported:

> Parameter | Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Data type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :---
`create` | Boolean | When true, the API cannot replace or update any existing index templates. Default is `false`.
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | How long to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
`timeout` | Time | How long the operation should wait for a response. Default is `30s`.

> ## Request body options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request fields
```

The following options can be used in the request body to customize the index template:

> Parameter | Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Data type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :---

> `template` | Object | The template which includes the `aliases`, `mappings`, or `settings` for the index. For more information, see [#template]. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`template` | Object | The template that includes the `aliases`, `mappings`, or `settings` for the index. For more information, see [#template]. Required.
```

`version` | Integer | The version number used to manage index templates. Version numbers are not automatically set by OpenSearch. Optional.

> `_meta` | Object | The optional metadata that gives details about the index template. Optional.

Reviewer 2: optional is present twice

> `_meta` | Object | The optional metadata that gives details about the index template. Optional.

Author: ```suggestion
`_meta` | Object | The metadata that gives details about the index template. Optional.
```

`allow_auto_create` | Boolean | When `true`, indexes can be automatically created with this template even if the `actions.auto_create_index` is disabled. When `false`, indexes and data streams matching the template cannot be automatically created. Optional.
`deprecated` | Boolean | When `true`, the component template is deprecated. If deprecated, OpenSearch will output a warning whenever the template is referenced.

### Template

You can use the following objects with the `template` option in the request body:

> #### `alias`

Reviewer 2: should we write to suggest that multiple aliases can be supported?

> The alias name as the key. Required when the `template` option exists in the request body.

Reviewer: This isn't a complete sentence. Can we rephrase?

> The alias name as the key. Required when the `template` option exists in the request body.

Author: ```suggestion
The name of the aliases to associate with the template as keys. Required when the `template` option exists in the request body. This option supports multiple aliases.
```

> The object body contains the following optional options for the alias:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The object body contains the following optional parameters for the alias:
```
?

> Parameter | Type | Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter | Data type | Description
```

:--- | :--- | :---

> `filter` | Query DSL object | The query that limits documents the alias can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`filter` | Query DSL object | The query that limits the documents that the alias can access.
```

> `index_routing` | String | The value which routes indexing operations to a specific shard. When specified, overwrites the `routing` value for indexing operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`index_routing` | String | The value that routes the indexing operations to a specific shard. When specified, overwrites the `routing` value for the indexing operations.
```

`is_hidden` | Boolean | When `true`, the alias is hidden. Default is false. All indexes for the alias must have matching values for this setting.

> `is_write_index` | Boolean | When `true`, the index is the [write index] for the alias. Default is `false`.

Reviewer: Why is this in brackets?

Author: I orginally intended on adding a link to the write index page, which currently doesn't exist.

Reviewer: Are you going to add the link?

`routing` | String | The value used to route index and search operations to a specific shard.

> `search_routing` | String | The value used to write specifically search operations to a specific shard. When specified, this option overwrites the `routing` value for search operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`search_routing` | String | The value used to write specific search operations to a specific shard. When specified, this option overwrites the `routing` value for the search operations.
```

#### `mappings`

The field mappings that exist in the index. For more information, see [Mappings and field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/). Optional.

#### `settings`

Any configuration options for the index. For more information, see [Index settings](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index-settings/).

## Example requests

> The following example requests show how to use the Create Component template API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example requests show how to use the Create Component Template API.
```

> The following example requests show how to use the Create Component template API.

Author: ```suggestion
The following example requests show how to use the Create or update component template API.
```

---
layout: default
title: Create or update component template
parent: Index APIs
nav_order: 29
---

# Create or update component template

> You use the Create Component Template API to create or update a component template. A component template is a reusable building block that defines settings, mappings, and aliases that can be shared across multiple index templates. 

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the Component template API to create or update a component template. A component template is a reusable building block that defines settings, mappings, and aliases that can be shared across multiple index templates. 
```

An index template can be constructed from multiple component templates. To incorporate a component template into an index template, you need to list it in the `composed_of` section of the index template. Component templates are only applied to newly created data streams and indexes that match the criteria specified in the index template.

If any settings or mappings are directly defined in the index template or the index creation request, those settings will take precedence over the settings or mappings specified in a component template.

Component templates are utilized solely during the process of index creation. For data streams, this includes the creation of the data stream itself and the creation of the backing indexes that support the stream. Modifications made to component templates will not affect existing indexes, including the backing indexes of a data stream.

## Path and HTTP methods

> The PUT method adds a component tempalte accepts both query parameters and a request body. The GET method retrieves information about an existing component template and accepts only query parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PUT method adds a component template and accepts both query parameters and a request body. The GET method retrieves information about an existing component template and accepts only query parameters.
```

```json
PUT _component_template/<component-template-name>
GET _component_template/<component-template-name>
```

## Path parameters

Parameter | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`component-template-name` | String | The name of the component template.

## Query parameters

The following optional query parameters are supported:

Parameter | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---
`create` | Boolean | When true, the API cannot replace or update any existing index templates. Default is `false`.

> `cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | How long to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster_manager_timeout` | Time | The amount of time to wait for a connection to the cluster manager node. Default is `30s`.
```

> `timeout` | Time | How long the operation should wait for a response. Default is `30s`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`timeout` | Time | The amount of time for the operation to wait for a response. Default is `30s`.
```

`version` | Integer | The version number used to manage index templates. Version numbers are not automatically set by OpenSearch. Optional.
`_meta` | Object | The metadata that gives details about the index template. Optional.
`allow_auto_create` | Boolean | When `true`, indexes can be automatically created with this template even if the `actions.auto_create_index` is disabled. When `false`, indexes and data streams matching the template cannot be automatically created. Optional.
`deprecated` | Boolean | When `true`, the component template is deprecated. If deprecated, OpenSearch will output a warning whenever the template is referenced.

### Template

You can use the following objects with the `template` option in the request body:

#### `alias`

The name of the alias to associate with the template as a key. Required when the `template` option exists in the request body. This option supports multiple aliases.

The object body contains the following optional parameters for the alias:

Parameter | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :---

> `filter` | Query DSL object | The query that limits the documents that the alias can access.

Author: ```suggestion
`filter` | Query DSL object | The query that limits the number of documents that the alias can access.
```

`index_routing` | String | The value that routes the indexing operations to a specific shard. When specified, overwrites the `routing` value for the indexing operations.
`is_hidden` | Boolean | When `true`, the alias is hidden. Default is false. All indexes for the alias must have matching values for this setting.

> `is_write_index` | Boolean | When `true`, the index is the [write index] for the alias. Default is `false`.

Author: ```suggestion
`is_write_index` | Boolean | When `true`, the index is the write index for the alias. Default is `false`.
```

`routing` | String | The value used to route index and search operations to a specific shard.
`search_routing` | String | The value used to write search operations to a specific shard. When specified, this option overwrites the `routing` value for the search operations.

#### `mappings`

The field mappings that exist in the index. For more information, see [Mappings and field types](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/field-types/). Optional.

#### `settings`

Any configuration options for the index. For more information, see [Index settings](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index-settings/).

## Example requests

> The following example requests show how to use the Create or update component template API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example requests show how to use the Create Component Template API.
```
Or just "...the API."

### Create with index aliases

The following example creates a component template that includes index aliases:

```json
PUT _component_template/alias_template
{
  "template": {
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    },
    "aliases" : {
        "alias1" : {},
        "alias2" : {
            "filter" : {
                "term" : {"user.id" : "hamlet" }
            },
            "routing" : "shard-1"
        },
        "{index}-alias" : {} 
    }
  }
}
```

### Adding component versioning

The following example adds a `version` number to a component template which simplifies template management for external systems:

```json
PUT /_component_template/version_template
{
  "template": {
    "settings" : {
        "number_of_shards" : 1
    }
  },
  "version": 3
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Adding template metadata

> The following example uses the `meta` parameter to add metadata to the index template. All metadata is stored in the cluster state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `meta` parameter to add metadata to the index template. All metadata is stored in the cluster state.
```
